Dalma Man Pages (dalman) 
====

## SYNOPSIS  
This page explains how to load our highly cusomized Python environments on Dalma.

There are basically two methods: either to use Python through  _Anaconda_ or the user install the modules in its own personalised environment.

This section describes the use of python with _Anaconda_. For more info about this, please visit: <a href="https://wikis.nyu.edu/display/ADRC/Python+-+Using+Anaconda" target="_blank">Python - Using Anaconda</a>

To know how to use a personalised Python environment, visit <a href="https://wikis.nyu.edu/display/ADRC/Python+-+Using+python+in+Dalma+-+Installing+Modules" target="_blank">Python - Using python in Dalma - Installing Modules</a>

To create your own Conda environment, visit <a href="https://wikis.nyu.edu/display/ADRC/Python+-+Create+Your+Own+Environment+using+Anaconda" target="_blank">Python - Create Your Own Environment using Anaconda</a>


## DESCRIPTION

1.- Login Dalma.

2.- Run this in terminal to load Anaconda module:

  \----------------------------------------------------------

   `module load anaconda`

  \----------------------------------------------------------

3.- Run this in terminal to inspect available environment:

\----------------------------------------------------------

  `conda env list`

\----------------------------------------------------------
 
  Example screen output from previous command:

```
  [wei@login-0-1 ~]$ conda env list
  # conda environments:
  #
  p27-astro                /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1/envs/p27-astro
  p27-scient               /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1/envs/p27-scient
  pyferret                 /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1/envs/pyferret
  python-27                /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1/envs/python-27
  python-3                 /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1/envs/python-3
  r-322                    /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1/envs/r-322
  r-essentials             /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1/envs/r-essentials
  root                  *  /share/apps/NYUAD3/anaconda/2-4.1.1

```

  The symbol "*" means the current loaded environment. In this case, "root" is loaded.

4.- Load specific Python environment. This example loads the environment p27-astro, the Python 2.7 environment for Center of Particle Detection. Run this in terminal:

\----------------------------------------------------------
 
  `source activate p27-astro`

\----------------------------------------------------------

  Example screen output from previous command:

```
  [wei@login-0-1 ~]$ source activate p27-astro
  (p27-astro) [wei@login-0-1 ~]$ 
```

  Notice the (p27-astro) prefix. It indicates the current loaded environment.

5.- **(Optional)** In case you want to load another Python environment, or you simply don't want this Python environment anymore, run this in terminal to unload the environment:

\----------------------------------------------------------

  `source deactivate`

\----------------------------------------------------------

## AUTHORS 
	NYUAD HPC Apps Team:
	--------------------
		- Benoit Marchand
		- Guowei He
		- Jorge Naranjo

## SEE ALSO

Please refer to the online documentation available [here](https://nyuad-hpc.github.io/dalman/html/dalma.html)
