Getting an Account On Dalma
====
 
## SYNOPSIS  

Here you will find information on how to get an account on 'Dalma'
 
## DESCRIPTION  

Account generation and renewal are done in the NYU High Performance Computing (HPC) account management site, IdentityIQ (IIQ) : [https://iiq.home.nyu.edu/identityiq](https://iiq.home.nyu.edu/identityiq). Use your NetID to log in.

After you log in the IIQ, follow the two-step process:
 
1. Request an account as instructed [here](https://wikis.nyu.edu/display/NYUHPC/Requesting+an+HPC+account+with+IIQ). You need a valid NetID to apply.
2. Ask your [sponser](https://wikis.nyu.edu/display/NYUHPC/Account+Eligibility) to log in IIQ, and follow [this link](https://wikis.nyu.edu/display/NYUHPC/How+to+approve+an+HPC+account+request) to approve your request.
 
The IIQ will generate the account on Dalma in 2 business days. You can then use your NetID and password to login.


### Eligibility

NYUAD HPC resources are available at no charge to full-time NYUAD faculty, NYUAD Institute funded researchers, other NYU Faculty and to all other staff and students with full-time NYUAD faculty sponsorship.

* Researchers outside the NYU community will need an NYUAD faculty sponsor to get an account.
* All sponsored accounts will be created for a period of 12 months, at which point a renewal process is required to continue to use the clusters.
 
### Sponsorship Guidelines

All full-time NYUAD faculty members are eligible to become sponsors, and in turn can sponsor:

* Degree program students
* Visiting scholars
* Research staff
* Other NYU staff/affiliates with a NetID
* Non-NYU researchers with whom they are actively collaborating

### Sponsorship Responsibility

HPC faculty sponsors are expected to:

* Approve/disapprove sponsored users' association with you
* Approve/disapprove the purpose for which user is requesting an account on NYUAD HPC resources
* Agree to supervise the sponsored individual, to the extent necessary, to ensure proper use of the NYUAD HPC resources and compliance with all applicable policies.
* Respond promptly to account-related requests from HPC staff

## AUTHORS 
     NYUAD HPC Apps Team:
     --------------------
         - Benoit Marchand
         - Guowei He
         - Jorge Naranjo
 
## SEE ALSO
 
 Please refer to the online documentation available [here](https://nyuad-hpc.github.io/dalman/html/dalma.html)
