Dalma Login
====

## SYNOPSIS  
Here you will find information on how to login 'Dalma'. 
  
## DESCRIPTION
If you are outside NYU campus, connect to NYU VPN as instructed [here](http://www.nyu.edu/life/resources-and-services/information-technology/getting-started/network-and-connectivity/vpn.html) first.

### FROM BUTINAH?
All you need is changing the hostname from `butinah.abudhabi.nyu.edu` to `dalma.abudhabi.nyu.edu`

### MAC / LINUX
For Linux / Mac, execute the following command. Change username to your actual username.

```shell
ssh username@dalma.abudhabi.nyu.edu
```

#### X11 GRAPHICAL TOOLS
For X11-based graphical tools, add `-X` to your ssh command. Change username to your actual username. E.g.,

```shell
ssh username@dalma.abudhabi.nyu.edu -X
```


### WINDOWS 
We recommend Putty as your ssh client. It is available for download [here](http://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/download.html).
 
1.- (First-time login only) Setup Butinah session in your Putty. Do NOT enter the double quote ""!

	- Open Putty. Go to "Category -> Session". 
	- Type "dalma.abudhabi.nyu.edu" in "Host Name" (or IP address).
    - Make sure "Port" is "22".
    - Make sure "Connection Type" is "SSH"
	- Type Dalma under "Saved Sessions".
	- Click "Save" button. A new session called Dalma will appear in Saved Sessions. 

2.- Select Dalma session. Click Load button. 

3.- Click Open button.

4.- (First-time login only) Click 'yes' if there is warning about "The authenticity of host 'xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx' can't be established"

5.- Type your NetID and password to login.

To know more about Putty, watch the movie [here](https://goo.gl/Kq2900).
 
## AUTHORS 
     NYUAD HPC Apps Team:
     --------------------
         - Benoit Marchand
         - Guowei He
         - Jorge Naranjo
 
## SEE ALSO
 
Please refer to the online documentation available [here](https://nyuad-hpc.github.io/dalman/html/dalma.html)

