Job Dependency
====

## SYNOPSIS  

You want to submit several jobs that have dependencies, to create a workflow. E.g., Job B will only start after Job A is finished. Job C will only start after Job B is finished. And so on.

## DESCRIPTION  

SLURM provide powerful mechanism to define job dependencies, by the job submission command **sbatch -d <type>:<id>**. The keyword **<id>** could be job id or job array id. There are 4 available **<type>** :


  * `afterany`: This job could begin after specified jobs have terminated.

  * `afterok`: This job could begin after specified jobs have `successfully` terminated (e.g., exit code zero).

  * `afternotok`: This job could begin after specified jobs have failed.

  * `after`: This job could begin after specified jobs have begun. `(e.g., if you use this keyword, and specify job2 depends on job1, job2 could start immediately once job1 starts!)`

## EXAMPLES

### You want to submit a job that will start after another job is terminated

Let say you first submitted a job. You run this in terminal, and the job id shows in the screen.

```

sbatch job1.sh
Submitted batch job 123456

```
 
Then you have a second job. You want to make sure the second job could only start running after the first job is successfully terminated. You could run this in the terminal. `Notice that in the real case, you have to replace 123456 to your actual job id`.
 
```

sbatch -d afterok:123456 job2.sh
or
sbatch --dependency=afterok:123456 job2.sh

```

Alternatively, you could have the second job ready to start after the first job is terminated, whether sucessfully or not. The command will be:

```

sbatch -d afterany:123456 job2.sh
or
sbatch --dependency=afterany:123456 job2.sh

```
 
 
## AUTHORS 
    NYUAD HPC Apps Team:
     --------------------
         - Benoit Marchand
         - Guowei He
         - Jorge Naranjo
 
## SEE ALSO
 
Please refer to the online documentation available [here](https://nyuad-hpc.github.io/dalman/html/dalma.html)

